Archaeology (or the theoretical framework for this class)

-   We need archaeology not just because of the things of this history we want to explore, but also because of the places of this history
    

-   The happenings of the past are just as relevant as the ones yet to come. They set the groundwork for what we newly discover.
    

  

-   Theory is a framework for understanding the world & directing your attention
    

-   What's important?
    
-   What questions do we have?
    

  

-   Complicated vs complex
    

-   A rocket ship verse the queensway
    
-   Recall in class wave example
    

-   You knew to raise arms when the person beside you did so
    

  

-   Assemblage theory
    
-   Atgencement, things come together
    

-   Meaning depends on context
    

-   Both internal,within
    
-   External, in time
    
-   External, in space



Codes & Ciphers

-   Cryptology: systems for ‘secret’ writing
    
-   Cryptanalysis: system for revealing those secrets
    

-   This is relevant in social life as well. In order to have privacy in any regard, you need a way to keep those private things to yourself.
    

  

-   A code: ‘variable sized elements that have meaning in the plaintext language’ - syllables, words, phrases (Dooley, 5); thousands of substitutions
    
-   A cipher: a transformation from plaintext according to some transformation (Dooley, 5-6); ‘small fixed number of substitution elements’
    

  

-   Nomenclators
    

-   Mixture of substitution cyphers and codebooks
    
-   Still susceptible to frequency analysis and context-dependent guessing
    

  

-   When analyzing history.. Think about where the gaps are
    

-   This is where new research comes in
    

-   Where are the women?



Electric History

-    Lots of animals make electricity 
    
-   Until 18th century, electricity was nothing more than curiosity 
    
-   Looking for contrast between electricity and soul
    
-   Electricity was discovered in frogs (animal bodies) :galvonism
    
-   The vital force is in the body
    

-   Use human corpses for experiment 
    

  

-   On the first application of the process to the face, the jaws of the deceased criminal began to quiver, and the adjoining muscles were horribly contorted, and one eye was actually opened
    
-   In the subsequent part of the process the right hand was raised and clenched, and the legs and thighs were set in motion. Mr Pass, the beadle of the surgeons company, who was officially present during this experiment, was so alarmed that he died of fright 
    

-   What were the ancient Greeks up to?
    
    
    
    
    Mediums & Messages

-   ‘Medium’ is something that carries something else
    

-   Carrying information. Social media, newspapers, movies, speeches etc…
    

  

-   Who decides that something is important?
    

-   In relation to the modern day internet, it is big media industries. They control the algorithms, which effectively control the public sphere.
    

  

-   “Classifications both reflect and direct our thinking. The way we order represents the way we think’
    

-   Stephen Jay Gould, ‘The Titular Bishop of Titiopolis’, Natural History 90: 22 1981
    

  

-   The medium holds just as much importance as the message
    

-   The way something is interpreted is impacted not just by the message, but how it is delivered.
    
-   Breaking up with someone over text is more rude than over a phone call. Breaking up with someone over a phone call is more rude than breaking up with them in person.
    

-   The way we classify media/messages has implications for power, control, and discipline (reflects and directs our thinking)
    

  

-   Libraries reflect the world back to itself
    

-   The way the world is interpreted by humans is captured in academic literacy.
    

-   “Books inspire other books written in the future, and cite books written in the past” - Pratchett
    

  

-   Bidirectional link
    

-   Two way connection
    

  

-   We try to find a correct way to organize information, but all this does is reflect what how we already see the world
    

-   Serendipity: a function of a particular vision of the world, a reproduction of its norms
    

-   The digitization of knowledge is built by people for whom these categorizations/classifications of the world are normalized
    

-   This is now the norm. The future is digital, and nobody denies it.
    

  

-   As the internet continues to evolve, shifts in what we believe to be normal will continue to happen. Power distribution will continue to change along with it.
    
